---
layout: verovio
verovio-light: true
title: Verovio ABC Examples
active: other-formats
other-active: abc-examples
version-footer: true
---

<script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[

    var zoom = 40;
    var pageHeight = 2000;
    var pageWidth = 2000;
    var spacingStaff = 0;
    var border = 20;
    var adjustPageHeight = 1;
    var vrvToolkit = new verovio.toolkit();

    function load_data(data, output_div) {
        options = {
                    inputFormat: 'abc',
                    breaks: 'encoded',
                    pageHeight: pageHeight,
                    pageWidth: pageWidth,
                    adjustPageHeight: adjustPageHeight,
                    spacingStaff: spacingStaff,
                    pageMarginLeft: border,
                    pageMarginRight: border,
                    scale: zoom
                };
        var svg = vrvToolkit.renderData( data + "\n", options );
        console.log( options );
        output_div.html(svg);
    }

    var examples = [

"X: 99\n\
T:Short tune\n\
C:K. Rettinghaus\n\
M:4/4\n\
L:1/4\n\
K:G\n\
D|G>ABG|A>BAD|G>ABA|G3|]",

"X: 99\n\
T:Short tune\n\
C:K. Rettinghaus\n\
M:4/4\n\
L:1/4\n\
Q:\"Andante\"\n\
K:G\n\
\"D\"!mf!D|\"G\"G>A \"Em\"B {/A/}G|\"Am\"A>B \"D7\"A{/E/}D|\"G\"G>A \"C\"B \"D\"A|\"G\"G3|]",

"X:1\n\
T:Dusty Miller, The\n\
T:Binny's Jig\n\
C:Trad.\n\
R:DH\n\
M:3/4\n\
K:G\n\
B>cd BAG|FA Ac BA|B>cd BAG|DG GB AG:|\n\
Bdd gfg|aA Ac BA|Bdd gfa|gG GB AG:|\n\
BG G/2G/2G BG|FA Ac BA|BG G/2G/2G BG|DG GB AG:|",

"X:2\n\
T:Old Sir Simon the King\n\
C:Trad.\n\
S:Offord MSS          % from Offord manuscript\n\
N:see also Playford   % reference note\n\
M:9/8\n\
R:SJ                  % slip jig\n\
N:originally in C     % transcription note\n\
K:G\n\
D|GFG GAG G2D|GFG GAG F2D|EFE EFE EFG|A2G F2E D2:|\n\
D|GAG GAB d2D|GAG GAB c2D|[1 EFE EFE EFG|A2G F2E D2:|\\\ % no line-break in score\n\
M:12/8                % change of meter\n\
[2 E2E EFE E2E EFG|\\\  % no line-break in score\n\
M:9/8                 % change of meter\n\
A2G F2E D2|]",

"X:1\n\
T:Broken rhythm markers\n\
M:C\n\
K:C\n\
A>A A2>A2 A>>A A2>>>A2|]",

"X:1\n\
T:Ties and Slurs\n\
M:C\n\
K:C\n\
(AA) (A(A)A) ((AA)A) (A|A) A-A A-A-A A2-|A4|]",

"X:1\n\
T:Accidentals\n\
M:C\n\
K:C\n\
__A _A =A ^A ^^A|]",

"X:1\n\
T:Chords\n\
M:2/4\n\
K:C\n\
[CEGc] [C2G2] [CE][DF]|[D2F2][EG][FA] [A4d4]|]",

    ];


//]]>
</script>

<div class="row">

    <div class="col-md-3 sidebar-offcanvas" id="sidebar" role="navigation">
        <div class="panel panel-default">
            {% include other-sidebar.html %}
        </div>
    </div>

    <div class="col-md-9">
        <div class="panel-body">

            <h3>ABC Music Input</h3>

            <p>
                Abc is a text-based music notation system originally designed for use with folk and traditional tunes and used throughout the web. You can find the documentation on the <a href="http://abcnotation.com/wiki/abc:standard" target="_blank">ABC notation</a> website.
            </p>
            <p>
                The following examples show some features of the ABC importer. They are all rendered dynamically in the web-browser with the <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/javascript.xhtml">JavaScript toolkit</a> version of Verovio.
            </p>

            <h4>Example</h4>
            <p>
                Let's start with a simple little tune.
            </p>
            <div id="svg_abc0" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc0"></code></pre></div>
            </p>
            <p>
                Verovio takes several information fields into account, e.g. the reference number <code>X</code>, the tune title <code>T</code>, the meter <code>M</code>, the unit note length <code>L</code>, the key <code>K</code>.
                As you can see, Verovio prints the header as expected by default. You may suppress this behaviour with the <code>--no-header</code> option.
            </p>
            <p>
                Now let's add a literal tempo as well as some grace notes and chord symbols. Dynamics are also very important!
                Note that chord symbols are put above the melody.
            </p>
            <div id="svg_abc1" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc1"></code></pre></div>
            </p>
            <p>
                With the option <code>breaks: 'encoded'</code> Verovio keeps the encoded layout, as you can see on this page. The default value is <code>'auto'</code>, which lets Verovio to decide where to put a line-break.
            </p>
            <div id="svg_abc2" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc2"></code></pre></div>
            </p>
            <p>
                Alternatively it is always possible to suppress score line-breaks. Meter changes are also supported.
            </p>
            <div id="svg_abc3" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc3"></code></pre></div>
            </p>

            <h4>Broken rhythm markers</h4>
            <div id="svg_abc4" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc4"></code></pre></div>
            </p>

            <h4>Ties and slurs</h4>
            <div id="svg_abc5" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc5"></code></pre></div>
            </p>
            <p>
                Verovio correctly differentiates between ties and slurs.
            </p>

            <h4>Accidentals</h4>
            <div id="svg_abc6" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc6"></code></pre></div>
            </p>

            <h4>Chords</h4>
            <div id="svg_abc7" style="overflow:auto;"/>
            <p>
                <div class="highlight"><pre><code id="code_abc7"></code></pre></div>
            </p>

            <h4>Known limitations</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Verovio imports only the first tune in a collection</li>
              <li>Tuplets are not supported</li>
              <li>User defined symbols are not supported</li>
              <li>Multi-voice music is not supported</li>
              <li>Lyrics are not supported yet</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
    </div>

</div>

<script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[

    $( document ).ready(function() {

        // adjust the zoom for small screens
        width = $('#svg_abc1').width();
        if ( width < zoom * pageWidth / 100 ) {
            zoom = width * 100 / pageWidth;
        }

        for (i = 0; i < examples.length; i++) {
            load_data( examples[i], $('#svg_abc' + i) );
            $('#code_abc' + i).html( examples[i] );
        }

    });
//]]>
</script>
